---
layout: post
title: Scientific Values
categories: rants
tag: exploratory science, collaboration, multidisciplinary  
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lots of things happened this past week. Most important of all, Dr. Adina Howe gave some absolutely wonderful presentations on microbiome. A great amount of interests were generated and many good questions were asked. Also from the Q&A sessions, I had a glimpse of the side of the acadamic world that I am not familiar with at all. It went around two themes: 
	1. Is exploratory/discovery scientific research interesting/exciting? 
		(or necessary?)
	2. Is collaboratory work a waste time?
		(is all about competition right?)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Obviously, I am biased. For one, majority of my research experience inovles exploratory work and I definitley value exploratory/discovery scientific research. For two, I came from a multidisciplinary background (microbiology, microbial ecology, engineering, and self-trained bioinformatics). It is kind of hard not to collaborate.  

I think exploratory/discovery work is an important step in pushing science forward and couldbe (or is) very exciting. I am very likely biased in this one because a large amount of my research exprience was at the exploratory/discovery level simply because the system and the field I was working in (and I am still working in...). In addition, I came from a multi-disciplinary background (microbiology, microbial ecology, engineering, and self-trained bioinformatics). I couldn't have done all these without an environment where multi-disciplinary training was highly encouraged. 
